Internet Architecture Board (IAB)                    Spring Han, Editor
Request for Comments: 1212                                    June 2020
Category: Informational                                         
ISSN: 2070-1721

How to Implement a Game of Rock-Paper-Scissors over the Internet
   
Status of This Memo

   This document is not an Internet Standards Track specification; it 
   is published for informational purposes.
   
   This is a contribution to the RFC Series, independently of any other
   RFC stream.  The RFC Editor has chosen to publish this document at 
   its discretion and makes no statement about its value for 
   implementation or deployment.
   
IPR Statement

   By submitting this Internet-Draft, I certify that any applicable
   patent or other IPR claims of which I am aware have been disclosed,
   or will be disclosed, and any of which I become aware will be
   disclosed, in accordance with RFC 3668.
   
Abstract

   The document specifies a how to effectively and securely implement
   a game of Rock-Paper-Scissors between two players over the internet
   in such a way to minimize the possibility of cheating and effect of
   network issues.
   
   
RFC 1212                     Informational                     [Page 1]

Internet-Draft        A Game of Rock-Paper-Scissors         9 June 2020 
 
 
Table of Contents [Page 1]

   1. Introduction ................................................   1
   2. Rock-Paper-Scissors .........................................   2
	  2.1. Selection of Players ...................................   2
	  2.2. Transmission of Data between Players ...................   2
	  2.3. Playing the Game .......................................   2
	  2.4. Dealing with Disconnection .............................   3
	  2.5. Storage of Results .....................................   3
   3. Security Considerations .....................................   4
   
1. Introduction

   Rock-Paper-Scissors is a game where two players are given a choice
   to choose between three possibilities, [ROCK], [PAPER] and 
   [SCISSORS]. They must both choose within a certain amount of time 
   between each other. This is usually denoted by a countdown or timer.
   The two choices are compared the the winner is who's choice beats 
   the others. [ROCK] beats [SCISSORS], [SCISSORS] beats [PAPER] and 
   [PAPER] beats [ROCK].

   
RFC 1212                     Informational                     [Page 2]

Internet-Draft        A Game of Rock-Paper-Scissors         9 June 2020    


2. Rock-Paper-Scissors 

2.1. Selection of Players
	
   Players have a username and password which they use to identify
   themselves with. Each player also has a trust factor which is
   used to determine how often non-standard events occur within
   their games.
	
   Each player sends a request to the server that they are looking
   for an opponent. The server stores all the players looking for
   an opponent and when there are two players whose trust factor 
   are within a certain range of each other available, t
   pairs the two together and sends each an address to which they
   can communicate together through. 

2.2. Playing the Game
	
   Once the players have hand-shaken with each other then a timer count
   down till the game starts. Once the players have acknowledged 
   each other, each has a timer that counts down till the game starts.

   When the game starts each player has to make a choice within
   an amount of time. The game will time-stamp when the players were 
   matched, each time the players must make a choice, each time the 
   players make a choice and when the players receive the opponents 
   choice. 
	
   When the players receive the opponents choice, the game will hide
   the choice until the current player makes a choice, or the time to
   make a choice runs out. Afterwards the opponents choice is revealed
   to the player and the game checks to see whether they lost or won.
   The result is stored on each players computer separately and the 
   game is played again till a player has a total of three wins.
	
   If a player does not receive receive a transmission within a
   set amount of time from the opponent then the match is dropped and 
   the information is sent to the server that the game was dropped due 
   to network issues.
	
	
RFC 1212                     Informational                     [Page 3]

Internet-Draft        A Game of Rock-Paper-Scissors         9 June 2020  

	
2.3. Prevention of Cheating [Page 3]
   
   To prevent cheating by players pretending to disconnect, timestamps
   of when the game receives the information about the opponents move
   and when the player makes a decision are compared to make sure the
   time between the two is not to long. Players are also given a trust
   factor that is calculated from the number of games that the player
   disconnects from and how often the player disconnects when they are 
   losing. 
   
   Once a player choice has been made it cannot be changed and the
   opponents move is only revealed once the outcome has been 
   calculated. There will also be checks to prevent the player from 
   altering client-side information. Results will also be stored on
   both players computers separately.
   
   All packets sent by the opponent with their signature is stored on
   the player's client. At the end of the game when the result is
   sent to the server, the signed moves are also sent to the server.
   This is to prove that the opponent did make the moves and to prevent
   implement non-repudiation of the results.
   
   Each move is also encrypted by the game which stores the information
   until a move is made by the player so they cannot read the information
   before they make a move.
  
  (Non-RFC Comment: I don't know enough about this to go into more detail)
   
	
2.4. Storage of Results
	
   Once a winner has been declared on a players computer, the result is
   sent to the server. The server will then compare the results. If 
   there is no difference then the result is stored and players trust
   factor is increased. If there is a difference between results then
   the game is scrapped and both players have their trust factor 
   decreased. 
   
   In the long term normal players trust factors should stabilize while
   those who often have non-standard games will have their decrease and
   will more likely play against each other.
   
   If a player disconnects and the server does not receive a response
   from that player, the server stores the information. Players who
   have disconnected over a set number of times in the time range
   will be unable to play for a time.
   
   (Non-RFC Comment: I'm not sure how to word variable time frames)
   

RFC 1212                     Informational                    [Page 4]

Internet-Draft        A Game of Rock-Paper-Scissors        9 June 2020 

3. Security Considerations

   To ensure that the person the player is communicating to his 
   opponent, each player should sign the information they are sending 
   with their private key before encrypting it with their opponents
   public key. We sign the information to prove that it is our move
   and then encrypt to prevent third parties from seeing the 
   information.

   To prevent players replaying same information at the start of each
   game the server sends a nonce to each player. When players return 
   the results to the server they also encrypt the nonce with their
   other information to prove that this information is the most recent
   game. Other security measures such as timestamps of moves and 
   packets are also included in the information.
   
   The players are only allowed to send packets through certain ports,
   the packets are checked for the data they contain. If the opponent 
   is sending trash packets through the ports/game then we close the 
   connection? 
   
   (Non-RFC Comment: I'm not sure how to protect from the dishonest players you're talking about)
   
	
RFC 1212                     Informational                    [Page 5]

Internet-Draft        A Game of Rock-Paper-Scissors         9 June 2020  
 
 
Authors' Addresses

   Some Address

   Email: someemail@gmail.com
 
   
RFC 1212                     Informational                     [Page 6]

Internet-Draft        A Game of Rock-Paper-Scissors         9 June 2020  
 
Full Copyright Statement

   Copyright (C) ??? (2020).

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2004).

   This document is subject to the rights, licenses and restrictions
   contained in BCP 78 and at www.rfc-editor.org, and except as set
   forth therein, the authors retain all their rights.
   This document and the information contained herein are provided on an
   "AS IS" basis and THE CONTRIBUTOR, THE ORGANIZATION HE/SHE
   REPRESENTS OR IS SPONSORED BY (IF ANY), THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE
   INTERNET ENGINEERING TASK FORCE DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR
   IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF
   THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED
   WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

Intellectual Property

   The IETF takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any
   Intellectual Property Rights or other rights that might be claimed
   to pertain to the implementation or use of the technology
   described in this document or the extent to which any license
   under such rights might or might not be available; nor does it
   represent that it has made any independent effort to identify any
   such rights.  Information on the ISOC's procedures with respect to
   rights in ISOC Documents can be found in BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Copies of IPR disclosures made to the IETF Secretariat and any
   assurances of licenses to be made available, or the result of an
   attempt made to obtain a general license or permission for the use
   of such proprietary rights by implementers or users of this
   specification can be obtained from the IETF on-line IPR repository
   at http://www.ietf.org/ipr.

   The IETF invites any interested party to bring to its attention
   any copyrights, patents or patent applications, or other
   proprietary rights that may cover technology that may be required
   to implement this standard.  Please address the information to the
   IETF at ietf-ipr@ietf.org.
